
							wdantiparkd


What is it?
	
	wdantiparkd is a software that reads hard drives continuosly to prevent them from parking too early.
	It's pretty userfull for anyone have a Western Digital "Green" disk into an enclosure and would turn off his "IntelliPark" feature, but cannot remove it from his box (otherwise there're wdidle3, under Windows and idle3-tools, under linux, that can do it in a better way).
	
	
Why disable IntelliPark?

	All WD Green hard drives have a feature called "IntelliPark" which parks the drive's head after 8 seconds of inactivity.
	So, when the disk is used into a NAS or as the main drive on any operating system, the drive's head is frequently unparked due to filesystem synchronization mechanisms. This results in S.M.A.R.T. LLC (Load/Unload Cycles) counts of as high as 100 per hour! As WD Green hard drives are rated for 300000 cycles, the limit can be reached within months...
	wdantiparkd combines the idea of laptop-mode and hard drive touching to help keep the power usage low while maintaining a more reasonable load cycle count.
	
	
How it works?

	wdantiparkd runs as a daemon which monitors disk activity.
	It runs in 3 states: ANTI-PARK, PARKED and SLEEP.

	In ANTI-PARK state, the daemon makes disk access every 7 seconds to prevent parking. The disk is continuously touched until there is no
	read activities for 1 min. Disk data is synced periodically in this state. Once 1 min of read-idleness has passed, it enters PARKED state.

	In PARKED state, the daemon ceases it's disk access and allows the HD head to returned to parked position (thus increasing cycle count by 1). With laptop-mode enabled, all writes are buffered into RAM. This state lasts for 5 mins. If disk activity occurs during these 5 minutes, then it resumes back into ANTI-PARK state, except this time does it for 2 mins and doubles everytime PARKED state is interrupted (up to a maximum). If no disk activities occurs throughout PARKED state, then enter IDLE state.

	In IDLE state, the operation is the same as PARKED state, except that any interruptions returns to the ANTI-PARK state with the default 1 minutes timeout. Also, in IDLE state, disk spindown may occur if your kernel supports it.
	

For more info:

	http://www.sagaforce.com/~sound/wdantiparkd/